# IRT_XAI
Results of the paper "Explanation-by-Example based on Item Response Theory"

This repository is organized as follows:

- **decodIRT_OtML_mod.py**: Script of the decodIRT tool that was modified to suit the interests of this research.
- **dataset_properties.csv**: File containing the 15 properties of the 4 datasets that were used as a case study.
- **decodIRT_output**: Folder containing all the files generated by the decodIRT tool.
- **results**: Folder containing other results that were generated during the experiments.

In the **decodIRT_output** directory, there is a folder for each dataset that contains the following files:

- **dataset_name.csv**: The file without suffix indicates that its content is the answer of each of the ML models of the real classifiers and the artificial classifiers.
- **dataset_name_acuracia.csv**: The file with the suffix “_acuracia” means that its content is composed of a table containing the average accuracy of each real classifier, during cross-validation.
- **dataset_name_final.csv**: The file with the suffix “_final” means that its content consists of a table containing the accuracy of the real classifiers on the separate instances for testing.
- **dataset_name_irt.csv**: Just like the file without suffix in the name (dataset_name.csv), this file has an array of responses. However, it does contain a response vector for all real, artificial and RF classifiers.
- **dataset_name_mlp.csv**: Contains the final accuracy that the first set RF's classifiers obtained after the classification.
- **irt_item_param.csv**: Table containing all item parameters (Difficulty, Discrimination and Guessing) generated for the test set instances.
- **dataset_name_train.csv**: Contains the set of dataset instances used to train the models.
- **dataset_name_test.csv**: Contains the set of dataset instances used to test the models.
- **models**: Contains all ML models that were generated, saved in .pkl format.

In the **results** directory, there is a folder for each dataset that contains the following files:

- **corrInst_DisNeg.csv**: Correlation of features with negative discrimination, considering instances with negative discrimination.
- **corrInst_Erro.csv**: Correlation of features with item parameters, considering the instances that the analyzed model failed.
- **corrInst_ItemParam.csv**: Correlation of features with item parameters, considering all test instances.
- **heatInst_DisNeg.png**: Heatmap of the correlation of features with negative discrimination.
- **heatInst_error.png**: Heatmap of the correlation of features with item parameters, considering the instances that the analyzed model failed.
- **heatInst_ItemParam.png**: Heatmap of the correlation of features with item parameters, considering all test instances.
- **ItemParam_3D.png**: 3D scatter graph of the relationship between dataset instances arranged for each item parameter and divided by class.
